BETASEC ENGINEERING - PROJECT AND REPORT HANDOVER
Updated: 26 September 2026

START HERE
Read this file, AGENTS.md, and BetaSecEngineering/README.md before continuing.
This is context for future chats, not an instruction to start servers or tests.
Inspect current files before making changes; this summary can become outdated.

Workspace: C:\Users\steve\SecProject
Active application: C:\Users\steve\SecProject\BetaSecEngineering
Use the manage.py INSIDE BetaSecEngineering. The workspace also contains another
manage.py, secproject directory, and database; these are not the active app.

PURPOSE AND USER PREFERENCES
Local educational security lab for a school report covering SQL injection,
HTTP versus HTTPS, and session-cookie protections. Credential phishing is a
theoretical discussion. Keep concepts separate and explanations accessible.
Target about 3,000 words excluding references and appendix. Write as a university
student explaining a practical security engineering project to other students,
not as a scientific journal. Explain what was built, what each test shows, why
the result matters, and what was learned. Put most evidence in numbered appendix
screenshots and refer to them in the body. Prefer a simple functional interface
over elaborate branding. Do not change the application when the user only asks
questions or requests report documentation.

This is a one-time lab on the user's local machine, with no public deployment
planned. Prioritize loopback binding, dummy data, and controlled demonstrations;
do not expand the work into production hardening. Deliberate vulnerabilities are
part of the learning objective. Production configuration can be briefly compared
for context, without treating development settings as defects in this local lab.
Loopback binding blocks direct remote connections, but does not make every
possible vulnerability harmless: local processes and browsers can still reach
the service. Do not use tunnels, port forwarding, or public/LAN listeners.

Follow the current AGENTS.md and any newer user instructions. Use dummy data
only, bind to 127.0.0.1, preserve user work, and leave backups and the generated
virtual environment untouched. Burp/Wireshark tests require an explicit request.

COMPLETED APPLICATION WORK
- Django application with SQLite, signup, login, logout, password hashing,
  password validation, and authenticated account/session-status page.
- Separate LabAccount model for the intentionally vulnerable SQL example and
  the secure ORM comparison. These do not log in a normal Django user.
- Vulnerable view interpolates form values into raw SQL. Secure view uses
  LabAccount.objects.filter() to keep supplied values separate from SQL syntax.
- Both lab modes have dummy credentials, payload guidance, and a result page.
- Host checks and ENABLE_SECURITY_LABS flag restrict the lab. Loopback binding
  is still necessary; a Host header check alone is not network isolation.
- Session-key rotation, CSRF protection, HttpOnly, and SameSite=Lax retained.
- Read-only HTTP/HTTPS setup guide; no browser control changes server settings.
- GUI simplified: left-aligned HTTP Lab and SQL lab navigation, branding and
  large login headings removed, compact red/green lab labels retained, scope
  box and POST label removed, credential panel renamed Dummy Account.
- Responsive desktop/mobile layouts visually checked during previous work.
- Last executed Django checks passed and all 11 accounts tests passed on
  19 September 2026. These are historical results, not a fresh verification.

CURRENT DUMMY SQL ACCOUNT
Username: analyst
Password: secengy124!
Migration 0003_update_analyst_lab_password updates the existing account.
Template, tests, and report guides were updated with that password.
Old demo-pass-1 remains in migration 0002 and the reverse operation of 0003;
this is intentional migration history. Another seeded account is auditor.
These credentials are unrelated to normal users registered through /signup/.

PAGE MAP
/                              Redirect to login or authenticated account.
/login/                        Standard Django login; HTTP Lab entry point.
/signup/                       Create a dummy normal user; password validators.
/account/                      Transport and session-cookie settings display.
/logout/                       POST-only normal authentication logout.
/guide/http-https/             Read-only manual transport configuration guide.
/lab/sql-injection/vulnerable/ Deliberately unsafe SQL login.
/lab/sql-injection/secure/     ORM-based comparison for identical input.
/lab/sql-injection/result/     Dummy identity and lab mode after success.
/lab/sql-injection/logout/     POST-only clearing of lab session values.
/admin/                        Standard Django admin; not a main experiment.

KEY FILES (RELATIVE TO BetaSecEngineering)
accounts/views.py              SQL implementations and session handling.
accounts/models.py             Dummy LabAccount model.
accounts/forms.py              Django UserCreationForm subclass and lab form.
accounts/urls.py               Application routes.
accounts/templates/            Login, signup, lab, account, and guide pages.
accounts/static/accounts/site.css
accounts/tests.py              Authentication and SQL comparison tests.
betasecengineering/settings.py Development configuration and cookie controls.
accounts/migrations/0003_update_analyst_lab_password.py

RUNNING AND VERIFICATION
The server was last explicitly stopped on 19 September 2026; port 8000 was
confirmed closed then. Verify its current status rather than assuming it.
Do not automatically restart it just because a new chat reads this document.

Commands from C:\Users\steve\SecProject\BetaSecEngineering:
  ..\venv-secproject\Scripts\python.exe manage.py check
  ..\venv-secproject\Scripts\python.exe manage.py test accounts
  ..\venv-secproject\Scripts\python.exe manage.py runserver 127.0.0.1:8000

Local URL: http://127.0.0.1:8000/
The Python executable has sometimes required sandbox execution approval.
DJANGO_SECURE_COOKIES=1 sets Secure flags; it does not enable TLS.
ENABLE_SECURITY_LABS=0 disables the SQL lab views.

WHAT IS NOT COMPLETED
- HTTPS listener, certificates, or reverse-proxy setup.
- Recorded HTTP-versus-HTTPS packet comparison.
- Verified live Burp or Wireshark experiment evidence in this conversation.
  Procedures exist, but do not describe their expected results as observations.
- Phishing site, exploitable XSS route, or session-cookie replay experiment.

EXISTING REPORT GUIDES
BetaSecEngineering/report-guides/
  01_SQL_INJECTION_SECURE_VULNERABLE_GUIDE.txt
  02_BURP_SUITE_DEMONSTRATION_GUIDE.txt
  03_HTTP_WIRESHARK_DEMONSTRATION_GUIDE.txt
These contain detailed procedures, expected outcomes, and source references.
Review their wording before copying into the report. In particular, the SQL
payload comments out the trailing LIMIT 1 too; cursor.fetchone() retrieves one
row. The SQL guide's statement that LIMIT 1 limits the injected query is wrong.

IMPORTANT TECHNICAL DISTINCTIONS
- Payload: ' OR 1=1 -- closes the quoted username, introduces an always-true
  condition, and comments out the password condition and remaining SQL.
- Secure ORM filtering treats that whole payload as a literal username.
- Both SQL modes share lab-session state. A failed attempt does not clear an
  earlier successful lab session; use fresh sessions or log out between tests
  and assess the POST response, not an old result page.
- The secure SQL comparison is secure against this injection, not a production
  authentication design: LabAccount passwords remain plaintext dummy data.
- Normal Django user passwords are hashed. Hashing at rest does not encrypt
  the login request in transit.
- HttpOnly restricts JavaScript cookie access; it does not encrypt HTTP traffic
  or prevent all damage from XSS. CSRF protection is not an XSS defense.
- No exploitable XSS route was identified in the inspected implementation.
  Template escaping can be discussed or tested as a protection, without
  claiming that one unsuccessful payload proves complete XSS immunity.
- Phishing can collect credentials and allow a new attacker login. A simple
  fake page does not automatically obtain a victim's existing session cookie.
  Cookies are host/domain scoped, not port scoped; localhost services on
  different ports are not isolated from cookies solely by their port numbers.
- Loopback capture requires local capture access and does not show that remote
  strangers can observe 127.0.0.1 traffic.
- A trusted Burp CA permits intentional HTTPS inspection; it does not break TLS.

AGREED REPORT STRUCTURE
Target approximately 3,000 words for sections 1-5 combined. References and the
evidence appendix are separate, subject to the university's counting rules.
The earlier 5,500-6,500-word plan is superseded. Keep background short and focus
on practical demonstrations and their connection to security engineering.

1. ABSTRACT (about 150 words)
   Purpose, local lab, methods, actual results, and main lesson. Distinguish
   completed experiments from planned work and theoretical discussion.

2. PROBLEM STATEMENT / SCENARIO / THING TO BE BUILT (about 350 words)
   Combine introduction, scope, ethics, threat model, and system overview.
   Questions: Why can raw SQL permit bypass? What does HTTP expose and HTTPS
   protect? How could a copied interface support credential phishing?

3. BACKGROUND / REVIEW OF EXISTING WORK (about 400 words)
   SQL injection and parameterization; HTTP/TLS; hashing versus encryption;
   sessions and cookie attributes; escaping and CSRF; phishing; OWASP mapping.
   Introduce Burp, Wireshark, DevTools, and logs where they support the methods.

4. ANALYSIS / IMPLEMENTATION / LESSONS (about 1,750 words)
   4.1 What was built and why (200 words): pages, Django, dummy accounts, tools.
   4.2 SQL injection comparison (450 words): raw query, payload explanation,
       Burp evidence, ORM mitigation, and separating user input from commands.
   4.3 HTTP and HTTPS comparison (450 words): Wireshark evidence, credentials
       and cookies in transit, TLS protection; HTTPS currently remains planned.
   4.4 Theoretical phishing scenario (200 words): copied appearance, credential
       collection, subsequent login, and the limits of trusting visual design.
   4.5 Lessons and challenges (450 words): Django protections, session-demo
       scope decision, local capture setup, and brief configuration discussion.
   Refer to appendix figures for inputs and outcomes. Explain their meaning in
   the body; avoid repeating procedures, logs, and screenshots as lengthy prose.
   Connect results to secure defaults, trust boundaries, layered protection,
   and verification using the same input against vulnerable and secure code.

5. FINDINGS / CONCLUSION (about 350 words)
   Compact comparison of evidence and controls. Framework defaults help, but
   transport protection and deployment settings remain essential. Phishing is
   theoretical; HTTPS results must wait until tested.

6. REFERENCES / RESEARCH / APPENDIX
   Prefer Django, OWASP, PortSwigger, and Wireshark primary documentation.
   Appendix: route map, selected code, test matrix, screenshots, raw requests,
   packet filters, setup commands, and detailed procedures.
   Group screenshots by SQL/Burp, HTTP/Wireshark, HTTPS (once tested), and Django
   controls. Give each a figure number and short caption stating what it proves.

OWASP COVERAGE
Use one edition consistently and state its year. Current agreed mappings:
- A05:2025 Injection (A03:2021): demonstrated SQL flaw and ORM prevention.
- A04:2025 Cryptographic Failures (A02:2021): HTTP exposure and planned HTTPS.
- A02:2025 Security Misconfiguration (A05:2021): configuration review rather
  than a separate proven exploit. Keep this a brief contextual discussion of
  how requirements would change if deployed. DEBUG, the development server,
  enabled labs, and transport settings serve the intended local experiment;
  do not imply that this project requires production deployment work.
Phishing is primarily social engineering; do not automatically count it as a
demonstrated A07 Authentication Failures vulnerability. XSS belongs under
Injection but is discussed here as a protection, not a working exploit.

LIMITATIONS AND CHALLENGES FOR THE REPORT
Limitations describe what the experiment cannot establish. Challenges describe
practical difficulties encountered while building or testing it.
- One SQLite database, controlled input, dummy data, and one local machine
  limit generalization to other databases and real hostile networks.
- Django escaping, HttpOnly, CSRF, and session rotation complicate deliberately
  insecure demonstrations because these controls already provide protection.
- Windows localhost capture needs Npcap loopback support.
- HTTPS needs a separate TLS-capable server/proxy and correct proxy trust.
- XSS/session-cookie theft was discussed but not implemented. The decision was
  to avoid adding another vulnerability and duplicate the HTTP exposure lesson.
  Do not claim Django makes session theft impossible or that an implementation
  was attempted and failed; the conversation supports a scope/design decision.

NEXT CHAT STARTER
"Read PROJECT_HANDOVER.txt, AGENTS.md, and BetaSecEngineering/README.md first.
Inspect the relevant implementation before changing anything. My next task is:
[insert requested task]."
